docs/content/list_of_tools.rst, before:

List of tools
=================

The following tools use **BAM files** as input. These BAM files could come from any single-cell genomics protocol, as long as they have a **tag** that specifies the cell barcodes.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    tools/scFilterBarcodes
    tools/scFilterStats
    tools/scCountReads
    tools/scBulkCoverage
    tools/scJSD

The following tools use the **scloom** output produced within the sincei analysis workflow. The format of **scloom** file is same as **.loom**, but it contains extra metadata that's needed for sincei tools.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    tools/scCountQC
    tools/scCombineCounts
    tools/scClusterCells
    tools/scPlotRegion

.. contents::
    :local:

+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| tool                                 | type             | input files           | main output file(s)                         | application                                                                                                 |
+======================================+==================+=======================+=============================================+=============================================================================================================+
|:ref:`scFilterBarcodes`               | preprocessing    | BAM/SAM files         | text file with filtered cell barcodes       | Identify and filter cell barcodes (for droplet-based single-cell seq)                                       |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|:ref:`scFilterStats`                  | QC               | BAM/SAM files         | text file with QC per cell                  | Produce per-cell statistics after filtering reads by user-defined criteria.                                 |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|:ref:`scCountReads`                   | preprocessing    | BAM/SAM files         | scloom object with cellxregion counts       | Counts reads for each barcode on genomic bins or user-defined features.                                     |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|:ref:`scCountQC`                      | QC               | scloom object         | QC metrics / filtered scloom file           | Perform quality control and filter the output of scCountReads.                                              |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|:ref:`scCombineCounts`                | preprocessing    | scloom objects        | merged scloom object                        | Concatenate/merge the counts from different samples/batches or modalities                                   |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|:ref:`scClusterCells`                 | analysis         | scloom object         | .tsv file with clusters, png with UMAP      | Perform dimensionality reduction and clustering on the output of scCountReads.                              |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|:ref:`scBulkCoverage`                 | analysis         | tsv file + BAM file   | bigwig files                                | Get pseudo-bulk coverage per group using a user-supplied cell->group mapping (output of scClusterCells).    |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

Fernando (#27)
Migrate from `loompy` to `anndata` format.

---------

Co-authored-by: vbhardwaj <v.bhardwaj@uu.nl>
Co-authored-by: vivekbhr <vbhardwaj247@gmail.com>

docs/content/list_of_tools.rst, after:

List of tools
=================

The following tools use **BAM files** as input. These BAM files could come from any single-cell genomics protocol, as long as they have a **tag** that specifies the cell barcodes.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    tools/scFilterBarcodes
    tools/scFilterStats
    tools/scCountReads
    tools/scBulkCoverage
    tools/scJSD

The following tools use the `*anndata* <https://anndata.readthedocs.io/>`_ output produced within the sincei analysis workflow, with file extension **.h5ad**.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    tools/scCountQC
    tools/scCombineCounts
    tools/scClusterCells
    tools/scPlotRegion

.. contents::
    :local:

+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| tool                                 | type             | input files           | main output file(s)                         | application                                                                                                 |
+======================================+==================+=======================+=============================================+=============================================================================================================+
|:ref:`scFilterBarcodes`               | preprocessing    | BAM/SAM files         | text file with filtered cell barcodes       | Identify and filter cell barcodes (for droplet-based single-cell seq)                                       |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|:ref:`scFilterStats`                  | QC               | BAM/SAM files         | text file with QC per cell                  | Produce per-cell statistics after filtering reads by user-defined criteria.                                 |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|:ref:`scCountReads`                   | preprocessing    | BAM/SAM files         | h5ad object with cellxregion counts       | Counts reads for each barcode on genomic bins or user-defined features.                                     |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|:ref:`scCountQC`                      | QC               | h5ad object         | QC metrics / filtered h5ad file           | Perform quality control and filter the output of scCountReads.                                              |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|:ref:`scCombineCounts`                | preprocessing    | h5ad objects        | merged h5ad object                        | Concatenate/merge the counts from different samples/batches or modalities                                   |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|:ref:`scClusterCells`                 | analysis         | h5ad object         | .tsv file with clusters, png with UMAP      | Perform dimensionality reduction and clustering on the output of scCountReads.                              |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|:ref:`scBulkCoverage`                 | analysis         | tsv file + BAM file   | bigwig files                                | Get pseudo-bulk coverage per group using a user-supplied cell->group mapping (output of scClusterCells).    |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
